---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E3-Preparing for WODs Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-02-14
published: true
labels:
  - MIS
  - Learning
  - WODs
---
The last WOD I worked on was the Invoice1 WOD, where in this WOD I had to create a sales receipt that has at least 5 products. We had to create various variables to hold the data of the different products, and then creating a final table to the output the data.
This is the link to my page for this specific WOD:
https://github.com/xlin-4243/ITM352_S23_repo/WODs/Invoice1

When working on my WOD I felt that I did fairly well when it came to creating my variables, and the data within as it was a easy step. Another thing that went very smoothly was creating variables like subtotal, which combined different number variables. One thing that did slow me down a lot was having to manually change the number for the variables, which took me a long time in my first run. In my first run, it also took me a long time to figure out how to make a table, especially as I decided to go with the second option of creating an ID called invoice table insted of utilizing document.write, something I was much more familiar with due to past labs and WODs. One last thing I ran into was that my webpage through live-server was not updating unless I refreshed it, which I did not know was occuring. This casued me to be stuck and cofnused on why my code "wasn't working", when it was working perfectly fine, just that the page being displayed was not up to date. 

To prepare for the WOD, I just skimmed the instructions. However this method failed me miserably and I was very underprepared and just gave up on my first attempt as I was took about 2-5 minutes just coming up with the different products, then taking a pain-staking long while to change my variables to the right names (2,3,4,5). Instead of continuing on the path of possible failure, I just decided to restart my WOD, which old me wouldn't have willingly down unless it was absolutely necessary, but this decision benefitted me in ht elong-run. 

To prepare for my next WOD better, I am definitely going to read my WOD instructions more thoroughly next time, as well as preparing for possible prompts ahead of time, so I don't have to waste time during my WOD to come up with the answers/inputs (in this case, prepping the products and prices ahead of time).
