---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E6: Reflecting on Assignment 3 Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-05-12
published: true
labels:
  - MIS
  - Learning
  - Assignment 3
---
<p> 1. Briefly describe your system (e.g. A store selling Pokemon game cards) <br>
My assignment 3 is a bakery online store front that sells baked goods, ranging from various different types of cookies, cakes, and buns/breads.</p>
<p>2.Any notable shortcomings, bugs, problems, or additional features not implemented?<br>
  To be honest, there was unfortuntely many short-comings that I had with assignment 3, I don't evem know exactly what is/isn't working. One major issue is that I know of is that my IR isnt fully implemented, although I have the new Date() function called in my server and the session ID implemented for the user to be called and recorded, it is not displayed on my pages yet so....</p>
<p>3. Describe what you are most proud of about your system:<br>
  The main thing I am proud of that I spent majority of my time working on was just a working cart that stores the added products and it is able to be changed by the user itself. I am also happy about the fact that the session info was able to be properly stored and such.</p>
<p>4. Describe what you are least happy with your system:<br>
 I am very unhappy regarding many aspects of my system, to be frank, it is very unfinished especially compared to how I ended up with assignment 2, it seems like I have made backwards progress but was then unable to finish it and left off with a very undone and unpolished job with assignment 3.  </p>
<p>5. How was developing this assignment different than assignment #2?<br>
  Professor port mentioned this during class but i didn't realize this would apply as heavily but it is mainly just the changing of my assignment 2's code. Being assignment's approach to storing many of the info from one page to another was through query tring, this assignment expects the info to be stored by session ID, this meant a lot of my previous code had to be changed and I definitely did not allocate enough time to work on this assignment.<br>
 
<p>7.Describe what worked well in doing this assignment?<br>
When I ran into a problem, I would typically start off by mentally breakdown the structure of my code and seeing what may be the error and what is causing the error. Typically, I would have to try various console.logs to see what variable and information is being properly passsed through and what is being undefined then fixing it slowly from there</p>
<p>8. Describe what did not work well in doing this assignment?<br>
  The main thing would be again, time management. I really didn't realize how much time each task would take and completely underestimated how time consuming every step would be. Additionally, to be honest, I got very mentally burnt out toward the endand had very little motivation to push through all required/planned tasks I had for myself.</p>
<p> 9. What did you learn from doing this assignment?<br>
I learned that I really need to be plan ahead, it never hurts to heavily OVERESTIMATE the time I would need on an assignment/ a task on an assignment. Thus means that if I was to overestimate the only "bad" thing would just be extra time to polish my final result, but when I underestimate, I end up rushing and not being even to finish everything</p>
  
<p>10. If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently?<br>
  If I could go back in time I would've started wayy earlier and prioritized this assignment over other tasks. This is not an excuse but there is just other classes/work I had to complete and I thought that this would be the last thing I would leave for myself to finish. Looking back on it, this was an awful idea, as I was still completely unsure how long each task would actually take and I KNEW that assignment would burn me out fast, meaning I'd often take short but wasteful breaks to mentally clear up.</p>
  
<p>11. Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging <br>
 a.15% thinking about how to do something, planning <br>
  b. 25% writing code <br>
  c. 60% testing and debugging</p>
  
  <p> Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself) and explain briefly your rationale for the percentage breakdown. Be sure to include an overview of what specifically you and your partners contributed (e.g. “I worked on the security and my partner 1 worked on personalization”)<br>
  I worked on this entire assignment alone. </p>
  
